1. Inflammopharmacology. 2011 Oct;19(5):245-54. doi: 10.1007/s10787-010-0062-4. 
Epub 2010 Oct 28.

A review of the pharmacological effects of Arctium lappa (burdock).

Chan YS(1), Cheng LN, Wu JH, Chan E, Kwan YW, Lee SM, Leung GP, Yu PH, Chan SW.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Chinese Medicine and Molecular Pharmacology, 
Department of Applied Biology and Chemical Technology, The Hong Kong Polytechnic 
University, Hong Kong, SAR, People's Republic of China.

Arctium lappa, commonly known as burdock, is being promoted/recommended as a 
healthy and nutritive food in Chinese societies. Burdock has been used 
therapeutically in Europe, North America and Asia for hundreds of years. The 
roots, seeds and leaves of burdock have been investigated in view of its popular 
uses in traditional Chinese medicine (TCM). In this review, the reported 
therapeutic effects of the active compounds present in the different botanical 
parts of burdock are summarized. In the root, the active ingredients have been 
found to "detoxify" blood in terms of TCM and promote blood circulation to the 
skin surface, improving the skin quality/texture and curing skin diseases like 
eczema. Antioxidants and antidiabetic compounds have also been found in the 
root. In the seeds, some active compounds possess anti-inflammatory effects and 
potent inhibitory effects on the growth of tumors such as pancreatic carcinoma. 
In the leaf extract, the active compounds isolated can inhibit the growth of 
micro-organisms in the oral cavity. The medicinal uses of burdock in treating 
chronic diseases such as cancers, diabetes and AIDS have been reported. However, 
it is also essential to be aware of the side effects of burdock including 
contact dermatitis and other allergic/inflammatory responses that might be 
evoked by burdock.

DOI: 10.1007/s10787-010-0062-4
PMID: 20981575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]