1. Crit Rev Eukaryot Gene Expr. 2020;30(4):291-297. doi: 
10.1615/CritRevEukaryotGeneExpr.2020028454.

Malignant Melanoma: Skin Cancer-Diagnosis, Prevention, and Treatment.

Ahmed B(1), Qadir MI(2), Ghafoor S(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, Jiangsu Province, PR 
China.
(2)Institute of Molecular Biology and Biotechnology, Bahauddin Zakariya 
University, Multan, Pakistan.
(3)Institute of Molecular Biology & Biotechnology, Bahauddin Zakariya 
University, Multan, Pakistan.

Melanoma is a skin cancer caused by a malignancy of melanocytes. Incidence of 
melanoma is rapidly increasing worldwide, which results in public health 
problems. Primary extracutaneous melanomas can be ocular, gastrointestinal, 
mucosal, leptomeningeal, genitourinary, and lymphatic. The relationship between 
exposure to ultraviolet (UV) light and development of melanoma is intensively 
acute and complex, and intermittent sun exposure greatly increases the risk of 
melanoma. It is the fifth most common type of cancer in men number and the sixth 
most common in women. The diagnosis of melanoma is made through clinical 
assessment of the pigmented by health care professionals. Architectural features 
of malignant melanoma including asymmetry, confluence of growth, marked 
cellularity, and poor circumscription. The cytological feature of malignant 
melanoma include an irregular and thick nuclear membrane and prominent nucleoli. 
The preventive measures include reducing exposure to UV light and the sun. The 
early detection of skin cancer greatly reduces both short- and long-term 
morbidity and mortality. The treatment and follow-up with the doctor for 
melanoma patients may differ because of the stage of the tumor and the primary 
lesion. The typical therapy for malignant melanoma is surgical excision, 
immunotherapy such as interleukin 2 (IL-2), gene therapy, and biochemotherapy.

DOI: 10.1615/CritRevEukaryotGeneExpr.2020028454
PMID: 32894659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]